>> In the case of mercury, there
is no safe dose of mercury.
It's an interesting concept.
Some poisons in
this world, you can
get to lower and lower
levels, and finally you
reach a point where there just
simply isn't enough around
to cause disease.
Well, in the context
of mercury, the problem
is the element mercury is toxic.
So inherently, if you have a
single molecule of mercury,
it's toxic to human, to
a cell, whatever it is.
The only question is, how
much damage does it do?
In other words, how
much damage do you
need to clinically manifest with
something that we call disease?
And of course where
does that occur,
whether it's the brain, the
kidney, the heart, whichever
organ.
So the element of dose,
when it comes to mercury,
is only a function of how much
clinical symptoms you have
or how many people
are damaged by it.
So it's a very different
kind of poison.
And it's interesting, in
the context of mercury,
that we understand
how susceptibility
works, why some of us are
more susceptible than others.
The main susceptibility
is related to ability
to excrete mercury, which goes
back to the element itself
being poisonous.
Meaning, that if you put
mercury in a human body,
the body can't break it down.
That's the definition
of element.
It's the most elemental state.
So the body can't chew
it up, can't modify it,
deactivate it, or something.
All it can do is
eliminate it, excrete it.
And so the body makes a
substance called glutathione.
Glutathione is a very
sulfur-rich compound.
Mercury likes to
bind onto sulfur.
And this glutathione
that's inside of our cells,
in our blood, when we have
mercury exposure, whether it's
from amalgams or injected
in a vaccine or we eat fish,
the glutathione
goes and scavenges--
means binds up-- the
mercury and excretes it out
through the feces,
out through the urine,
even to a certain
degree through hair.
And what we find
is that there is
tremendous variability on
the amount of glutathione
among individuals.
Just in the context of autism,
the children who have autism
have over 50% less
glutathione than normal kids.
So this isn't a
case where they have
a metabolic or an inborn
error of metabolism--
they have no defense.
They just have less.
And so when mercury is
put into their system,
it causes more
damage, or they're
more susceptible to
being damaged by it.